
Chapter 1 - EC2 Overview

Lesson Breakdown
Introducing EC2 
EC2 Pricing Options
Exam Tips 


Introducing EC2:
Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)

    Secure, resizable computte capacity in the cloud.

    Like a VM, only hosted in AWS instead of your own data center.

    Designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers.

    The capacity you want when you need it.
    
    You are in complete control of your onw instances.


Introducing EC2:
    Game Changer: AWS led a big change in the industry by introducing EC2.
    
    Pay Only for What You Use: EC2 changed the economics of computing.
    
    No Wasted Capacity: Select the capacity you need right now. Grow and shrink when you need.


Introducing EC2:
    On-premises Infrastructure
    Estimate Capacity
    Long-term investment, 3-5 years.
    Expectation that the application will "grow into" it.
    Lots of wasted capacity.

有了 EC2 之后，wait minutes, not months


EC2 Pricing Options:
    On-Demand: 
        Pay by the hour or the second, depending on the type of instance you run.
    Reserved: 
        Reserved capacity for 1 or 3 years (you get into a contract with AWS between 1 to 3 years). Up to 72% discount on the hourly charge. (The more you pay upfront, the more discount you will get.)
    Spot:
        Purchase unused capacity at discount of up to 90%. Prices fluctuate with supply and demand. (The price of your EC2 instances moves up and down).
    Dedicated:
        A physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. The most expensive option.


EC2 Pricing Option - On-Demand Instances:
1. Flexible: 
    Low cost and flexibility of Amazon EC2 without any upfron payment or long-term commitment.
2. Short-Term: 
    Applictions with short-term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
3. Testing the Water:
    Applications being developed or tested on Amazon EC2 for the first time.


EC2 Pricing Option - Reserved Instances:
    Predictale Usage:
        Applications with steady state or predictale usage. (You understand the usage pattern of your application)
    Specific Capacity Requirements:
        Applications that require reserved capacity.
    Pay up Front:
        You can make upfront payments to reduce the total computing costs even further.
    Standard RIs:
        Up to 72% off the on-demand price. The more you pay upfront, the more discount you will get.
    Convertible RIs:
        up to 54% off the on-demand price. Has the option to change to a different RI type of equal or greater value.
        
        There are different types of EC2 instances, e.g. compute-based instances, GPU-based instances, etc.

    Scheduled RIs:
        Launch within the time window you define. Match your capacity reservation to a predictable recurring schedule that only requires a fratcion of a day, week, or month.
Reserved Instances operate at a regional level. -> If you reserve an instance in US East 1, you can't apply that reservation to Pairs, London.


Savings Plans with Reserved Instances:
1. Save up to 72%:
    All AWS compute usage, regardless of instance type or Region. The more you pay upfront, you more discount you will get. The max discount you can get is 72%.
2. Commit to 1 or 3 Years:
    Commit to use a specific amount of compute power (measured by the hour) for a 1-year or 3-year period.
3. Super Flexible:
    Not only EC2, this also includes serverless technologies like Lambda and Fargate.


EC2 Pricing Options - When to Use Spot Instances:
    Spot price moves around. Basically, you say which price you want to have instance capacity at. Then it hits that price, you have your spot instances. As soon as it moves away from that price, you lose your spot instances.

    Flexible:
        Applications that have flexible start and end times.
    Cost Sensitive:
        Applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices.
    Urgent Capacity:
        Users with an urgent need for large amounts of additional computing capacity.
        e.g.
        Image rendering
        Genomic sequencing
        Algorithmic trading engines.


EC2 Pricing Options - Dedicated Hosts
    Compliance
        Regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant virtualiztion. Needs to be on dedicated hardware.
    Licensing
        Great for licensing that does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments
    On-Demand
        Can be purchased on-demand (hourly).
    Reserved
        Can be purchased as a reservation for up to 70% off the on-demand price. (Again, the more you pay upfront, you more discount you will get.)


Explore AWS services and pricing using the AWS Pricing Calculator.


Exam Tips:
EC2 is like a VM, hosted in AWS instead of your own data center.
    Select the capacity you need right now.
    Grow and shrink when you need.
    Pay for what you use.
    Wait minutes, not months.

Exam Tips:
EC2 Instance Pricing Options:
    On-Demand:
        Pay by the hour or the second, depending on the type of instance you run. Great for flexibility.
    Reserved:
        Reserved capacity for 1 or 3 years.
        Up to 72% discount on the hourly change.
        Great if you have known, fixed requirements.
    Spot:
        Purchase unused capacity at a discount of up to 90%. Prices fluctuate with supply and demand. Great for applications with flexible start and end times.
    Dedicated:
        A physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Great if you have server-bound licenses to reuse or compliance requirements.
    


Chapter 5.3 - AWS Command Line

Lesson Breakdown
    The AWS Management Console
    Command Line Interactions
    Lesson Objectives
    AWS CLI - Demo
    Exam Tips


The AWS Management Console

AWS Command Line:
    You can also interact with AWS using the Command Line.
    The AWS command line allows you to interact with AWS simply by typing commands.
    In this example we will list all our buckets in S3.
    Tell me all the s3 buckets that exist in this s3 account.
        aws s3 ls
    
Lesson Objectives:
1. Launch an EC2 Instance
    This is where we will use the AWS CLI.
2. Create an IAM User
    Give the user permissions to access and create S3 resources.
3. Configure the AWS CLI
    Configure the CLI using the IAM user's credentials.
    Use the CLI to create an S3 bucket and upload a file.

demo:
下载了 pem file MyNVKP.pem
打开 mac 的 terminal
cd Downloads

ls       (should be able to see MyNVKP.pem)

chmod 400 MyNVKP.pem   (in order to access my ec2 instance, I need to change the permission on this file)

ssh ec2-user@54.226.207.77 -i MyNVKP.pem
[ ssh (user name)@(public ipv4 address) -i MyNVKP.pem ]

sudo su    -->  elevate the previlleges to root, now have root user access

yam update -y      (update to the latest patches, just to make sure our ec2 instances have all the security patches installed)

aws s3 ls
(会显示：Unable to locate credentials. You can configure credentials by running "aws configure".)
(这是因为，don't have your credentials to log into aws, so need to run aws configure)

aws configure
(will ask for AWS Access Key ID & AWS Secret Access Key)

再run
aws s3 ls
就可以了

aws s3 mb s3://gsagdsagdadsaggda      (mb - make bucket)
这样就 create 了一个 bucket

echo "Hello" > hello.txt
cat hello.txt      (会 print out： Hello)

aws s3 cp hello.text s3://gsagdsagdadsaggda
(这样就 upload 了 file to the bucket)


AWS CLI Exam Tips
Least Privilege:
    Always give your users the minimum amount of access required to do their job.
Use Groups:
    Create IAM groups and assign your users to groups.
    Group permissions are assigned using IAM policy documents.
    Your users will automatically inherit the permissions of the group.


3 AWS CLI Exam Tips:
1. Secret Access Key:
    You will only see this once! If you lose it, you can delete the access key ID and secret access key and regenerate them. You will need to run "aws configure" again.
2. Don't Share Key Pairs
    Each deleoper should have their own access key ID and secret access key. Just like passwords, they should not be shared.
3. Supports Linux, Windows, MacOS
    You can install the CLI on your Mac, Linux, or Windows PC. You can also use it on EC2 instances.




Chapter 5.4 - Using Roles

Lesson Breakdown:
    What is an IAM Role?
    Roles Are Temporary
    What Else Can Roles Do?
    Console Demo


What is an IAM Role?
    A role is an identity you can create in IAM that has specific permissions. A role is similar to a user, as it is an AWS identity with permission policies that determine what the identity can and cannot do in AWS.

    However, instead of being uniquely associated with one person, a role is intended to be assumable by anyone who needs it.


Roles Are Temporary

A role does not have standard long-term credentials the same way passwords or access keys do. Instead, when you assume a role, it provides you with temporary security creditials for your role session.


What Else Can Roles Do?

Roles can be assumed by people, AWS architecture, or other system-level accounts.

Roles can allow cross-account access. This allows one AWS account the abilty to interact with resources in other AWS accounts.


Console Demo:
1. Create an IAM Role: 
    Ensure it has S3 access
2. Create an EC2 Instance:
    Attach the role we just created.
3. Create S3 Bucket
    Create a bucket in S3.
4. Access S3 
    Try to access S3 from our EC2 instance.

Exam Tips:
What to Remember When using Roles:
1. The Perferred Option:
    Roles are preferred from a security perspective.
2. Avoid Hard-Coding Your Credentials
    Roles allow you to provide access without the use of access key IDs and secret access keys.
3. Policies
    Policies control a role's permissions.
4. Updates
    You can update a policy attached to a role, and it will take immediate effect.
5. Attaching and Detaching
    You can attach and detach roles to running EC2 instances without having to stop or terminate those instances.

In the exam 中，你可能会被问到：
whether you should use access key ID or secret access key ID for you application, or you should just grant your EC2 instance a role that gives you the ability to interact with another service in AWS:
You 应该 always choose roles over hard coding credentials



Chapter 5.5 - Security Groups and Bootstrap Scripts

Lesson Breakdown:
    How Humans Sense Things
    How Computers Communicate
    Security Groups
    Bootstrap Scripts
    Console Demo
    Review

Basic Human Senses
    We see, hear, and feel using different mechanisms
    
    Light: we see light using our eyes
    Sound: we hear sound using our ears
    Heat: we feel heat using our skin

How Computers Communicate
    Linus 
        SSH, Port 22
    Windows
        RDP, Port 3389     --> this is how you interface with Windows machine remotely
    HTTP
        Web Browsing
        Port 80
    HTTPS
        Encrypted Web Browsing (SSL)
        443

Security Groups
    Security groups are virtual firewalls for your EC2 instance. Be default, enverything is blocked.
    To let everything in: 0.0.0.0/0
    In order to be able to communicate to your EC2 instances via SSH/RDP/HTTP, you will need to open up the correct ports.

Bootstrap Scripts
    A script that runs when the instance first runs
    Adding these tasks at boot time adds to the amount of time it takes to boot the instance. However, it allows you to automate the installation of applications.

Bootstrap Script Example:
#!/bin/bash        --> 这里是 shebang，是path to our interpreter
yum install httpd -y
#installs apache
yum service httpd start
# starts apache

Security Groups Exam Tips:
    Tip 1: Changes to security groups take effect immediately.
    Tip 2: You can have any number of EC2 instances within a security group.
    Tip 3: You can have multiple security groups attached to EC2 instances.
    Tip 4: All inbound traffic is blocked by default.
    Tip 5: All outbound traffic is allowed.

    Bootstrap Scripts:
        A bootstrap script is a script that runs when the instance first runs. 
        It passes user data to the EC2 instance and can be used to install applications (like web servers and databases), as well as do updates and more.



Chapter 5.6 - EC2 Metadata and User Data

Lesson Breakdown
    What is EC2 Metadata?
    Retrieving Metadata
    Using User Data to Save Metadata
    Demo
    Exam Tips

What is EC2 Metadata?
    EC2 metadate is simply data about your EC2 instance.
    This can include information suh as private IP address, public IP address, hostname, security groups, etc.

Retrieving Metadata
    Using the curl command, we can query metadata about our EC2 instance.

    e.g.
        curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/

Using User Data to Save Metadata
    In this simple bootstrap (user data) script, we use the curl command to save our EC2 metadata.

    e.g.
        curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4 > myIP.txt

Exam Tips: user Data vs. Metadata
    User data is simple bootstrap scripts.
    Metadata is data about your EC2 instances.
    You can use bootstrap scripts (user data) to access metadata.




Chapter 5.7 - Networking with EC2

Lesson Breakdown
    Different Virtual Networking Options
    ENI
    Enhanced Networking
    ENA vs. VF
    EFA
    Exam Tips

Networking with EC2
    You can attach 3 different types of virtual networking cards to your EC2 instances

    ENI: Elastic Network Interface
        For basic, day-to-day networking
    
    Enhanced Networking
        Uses single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) to provide high performance
    
    EFA: Elastic Fabric Adapter
        Accelerates High Performance Computing (HPC) and machine learning applications
    
ENI
    An ENI is simply a virtual network card that allows:
        Private IPv4 Addresses
        Public IPv4 Address
        Many IPv6 Address
        MAC Address
        1 or More Security Groups

Common ENI Use Cases
    Create a management network.
    Use network and security appliances in your VPC.
    Create dual-homed instances with workloads/roles on distinct subnets.
    Create a low-budget, high-availability solution.

Enhanced Networking
    What is Enhanced Networking?
        For High-Performance Networking between 10 Gbps - 100 Gbps

    Single Root I/O Cirtualization (SR-IOV)
        SR-IOV provides higher I/O performance and lower CPU utilization
    
    Performance
        Provides higher bandwidth, higher packet per second (PPS) performance, and consistently lower inter-instance latencies

Depending on your instance type, enhanced networking can be enabled using:
    Elastic Network Adapter (ENA):
        Supports network speeds of up to 100 Gbps for supported instance types.
    INTEL 82599 Cirtual Function (VF) interface:
        Supports network speeds of up to 10 Gbps for support instance types. Typically used on oler instances.

In any scenario question: choose ENA over VF interface

What is an EFA?
    Elastic Fabric Adapter
    1. A network device you can attach to your Amazon EC2 instance to accelerate High Performance Computing (HPC) and maching learning applications
    2. Provides lower and more consistent latency and higher throughput than the TCP transport traditionaly used in cloud-based HPC systems.

EFA can use OS-bypass
    It makes is a lot faster with much lower latency.
    OS-bypass enables HPC and machine learning applications to bypass the operating system kernel and communicate directly with the EFA device. 
    Not currently supported with Windows - only Linux.

Exam Tips:
    For different scenarios on the exam, choose the correct networking device.
    1. ENI:
        For basic networking. Perhaps you need a separate management network from your production network or a separate logging network, and you need to do this at a low cost. 
        In this scenario, use multiple ENIs for each network.
    2. Enhanced Networking 
        For when you need speeds between 10 Gbps and 100 Gbps. Anywhere you need reliable, high throughput.
    3. EFA
        For when you need o accelerate High Performance Computing (HPC) and machine learning applications or if you need to do an OS-bypass. 
        If you see a scenario question mentioning HPC ro ML and asking what network adapter you want, choose EFA.



Chapter 5.8 - Optimizing with EC2 Palcement Groups

Lesson Breakdown
    3 Types of Placement Groups
    Cluster
    Spread
    Partition
    Exam Tips

3 Types of Placement Groups: Cluster, Spread, Partition

Cluster Placement Groups
    Grouping of instances within a single Availability Zone. Recommended for applications that need low network latency, high network throughput, or both.
    Fact: Only certain instance types can be lauched into a cluster placement group.

Spread Placement Groups:
    A spread placement group is a group of instances that are each placed on distinct underlying hardware.
    Spread placement groups are recommended for applications that have a small number of critical instances that should be kept separate from each other.
    Scenario Questions: used for individual instances

Partition Placement Groups
    Each partition placement group has its own set of racks. Each rack has its own network and power source. No two partitions within a placement group share the same racks,
    allowing you to isolate the impact of hardware failure within your application.

    EC2 divides each group into logical segments called paritions.

    Scenario Questions: used for mulitple instances

Exam Tips: 
3 Types of Placement Groups
Cluster Placement Groups:
    Low network latency, high network throughput
Spread Placement Groups:
    Individual critical EC2 instances
Partition Placement Groups:
    Mulitple EC2 instances; HDFS, HBase, and Cassandra

Exam Tips:
1. A cluster placement group can't span multiple Availability Zones, whereas a spread placement group and partition placement group can.
2. Only certain types of instances can be launced in a placement group (compute optimized, GPU, memeory optimized, storage optimized).
3. AWS recommends homogenous instances within cluster placement groups.
4. You can't merge placement groups.
5. You can move an existing instance into a placement group. Before you move the instance, the instance must be in the stopped state. 
    You can move or remove an instance using the AWS CLI or an AWS SDK, but you can't do it via the console yet.



Chapter 5.9 - Solving Licensing Issues with Dedicated Hosts

Lesson Breakdown:
    The Different Pricing Models for EC2
    Dedicated Hosts
    Exam Tips


The Different Pricing Models for EC2
On-Demand:
    Pay by the hour or the second, depending on the type of instance you run.
Reserved:
    Reserved capacity for 1 or 3 years. Up to 72% discount on the hourly charge.
Spot:
    Purchase unused capacity at a discount of up to 90%. Prices fluctuate with supply and demand.
Dedicated:
    A phsical EC2 server dedicaed for your use. The most expensive option.


Dedicated Hosts
    Complicance
        Regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant virtualization.
    Licensing:
        Great for licensing that does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments.
    On-Demand:
        Can be purchased on-demand (hourly).
    Reserved:
        Can be purchased as a reservation for up to 70% off the on-demand price.


Exam Tips:
For any question that talks about special licensing requirements, I want you to think about dedicated hosts.

An Amazon EC2 Dedicated Host is a physical server with EC2 instance capacity fully dedicated to your use. 
Dedicated Hosts allow you to use your existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM software licenses, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, and SUSE Linux Enterprise Server.



Chapter 5.10 - Timing Workloads with Spot Instances and Spot Fleets

Lesson Breakdown
    What Are EC2 Spot Instances?
    Spot Prices
    Spot Blocks
    Use Cases
    Terminating Spot Instances
    What Are Spot Fleets?
    Launch Pools
    Strategies
    Exam Tips

What Are EC2 Spot Instances?
    Amazon EC2 Spot Instances let you take advantage of unused EC2 capacity in the AWS Cloud. Spot Instancts are available at up to a 90% discount compared to On-Demand prices.

When to Use Spot Instances?
    Stateless, fault-tolerant, or flexible applications
    Applications such as big data, containerized workloads, CI/CD, high-performance computing (HPC), and other test and developement workloads.

Spot Prices:
    To use Spot Instances, you must first decide on your maximum Spot price. The instance will be provisioned so long as the Spot price is BELOW your maximum Spot price.
    The hourly Spot price varies depending on capacity and region.
    If the Spot price goes above your maximum, you have 2 minutes to choose whether to stop or terminate your instance.

Spot Blocks:
    You may also use a Spot block to stop your Spot Instances from being terminated even if the Spot price goes over your max Spot price. 
    You can set Spot blocks for between 1 to 6 hours currently.

Use Cases:
    Spot Instances are NOT good for:
        Persistent workloads
        Critical jobs
        Databases

What Are Spot Fleets?
    A Spot Fleet is a collection of Spot Instance and (optionally) On-Demand Instances.

    The Spot Fleet attempts to launch the number of Spot instances and On-Demand instances to meet the target capacity you spedified in the Spot Fleet request.
    The request for Spot Instances is fulfilled if there is available capacit and the maximum price you specified in the request exceeds the current Spot price.
    The Spot Fleet also attempts to maintain its target capacity fleet if your Spot Instances are interrupted.

Launch Pools
Spot Fleets will try and match the target capacity with your price restraints.
1. Set different launch pools. Define things like EC2 instanc type, operating system, and Availability Zone.
2. You can have multiple pools, and the fleet will choose the best way to implement depending on the strategy you define.
3. Spot fleets will stop launching instances once you reach your price threshold or capacity desire.

Strategies:
    You can have the following strategies with Spot Fleets.
    1. capacityOptimized:
        The Spot Instances come from the pool with optimal capacity for the number of instances launching.
    2. diversified:
        The Spot Instances are distributed across all pools.
    3. lowestPrice:
        The Spot Instances come from the pool with the lowest price. This is the default strategy.
    4. InstancePoolsToUseCount:
        The Spot Instances are distributed across the number of Spot Instance pools you specify. This parameter is valid only when used in combination with lowestPrice.

Exam Tips:
    Spot Instances save up to 90% of the cost of On-Demand instances.
    Useful fro any type of computing where you don't need persistent storage.
    You can block Spot Instances from terminating by using a Spot block.
    A Spot Fleet is a collection of Spot Instances and (optionally) On-Demand instances.



Chapter 5.11 - Deploying vCenter in AWS with VMware Cloud on AWS

Lesson Breakdown:
    Why Use VMware on AWS?
    Use Cases
    Deployment
    Exam Tips

Why Use VMware on AWS?
    VMware is used by organizations around the world for privte cloud deployments. Some organizations opt for a hybrid cloud strategy and would like to leverage AWS services.

Use Cases for VMware
    Hybrid Cloud
        Connect you on-premises cloud to the AWS public cloud, and manage a hybrid workload.
    Cloud Migration
        Migrate your existing cloud environment to AWS using VMware's built-in tools.
    Disaster Recovery
        VMware is famous for its disaster recovery technology. Using hybrid cloud, you can have inexpensive disaster recovery environment on AWS.
    Leverage AWS
        Use over 200 AWS services to update your applications or to create new ones.

VMware Cloud on AWS
    How is it deployed?
    1. It runs on dedicated hardware hosted in AWS using a single AWS account.
    2. Each host has two sockets with 18 cores per socket, 512 GiB RAM, and 15.2 TB Raw SSD storage
    3. Each host is capable of running multiple VMware instances (up to the hundreds)
    4. Cluster can start with two hosts up to a mizimum of 16 hosts per cluster.

Exam Tips:
    You can deploy vCenter on the AWS Cloud using VMware.
    Perfect solution for extending your private VMware Cloud into the AWS public cloud.


Chapter 5.12 - Extending AWS Beyond the Cloud with AWS Outposts

Lesson Breakdown:
    What is Outposts?
    Benefits
    Family Members
    Process
    Exam Tips

What is Outposts?
    Outposts brings the AWS data center directly to you, on-premises. 
    Outposts allows you to have the large variety of AWS services in your data center
    You can have Outposts in sizes such as 1U and 2U servers all the way up to 42U racks and multiple-rack deployments.

Benefits of Outposts
    Hybrid Cloud:
        Create a hybrid cloud where you can leverage AWS services inside your own data center.
    Fully Managed Infrastructure:
        AWS can manage the infrastructure for you. You do not need a dedicated team to look after your Outposts infrastructure.
    Consistency:
        Bring the AWS Management Console, APIs, and SDKs into your data center, allowing uniform consistency in your hybrid environment.
    
Outposts Rack:
    Hardware:
        Available starting with a single 42U rack and scale up to 96 racks.
    Services:
        Provides AWS compute, storage, database, and other services locally
    Results:
        Gives the same AWS infrastructure, services, and APIs in your own data center.



