
Chpater 2.1 - The Building Blocks of AWS: Availability Zones and Regions

Availability Zones and Regions

Lesson Breakdown:
    AWS Global Infrastructure
    Availability Zones
    Data Centers
    Regions
    Edge Locations
    The AWS Management Console


AWS Global Infrastructure: 
The global infrastructure consists of regions and availability zones 
At the time of the recording, there are 24 regions and 77 availability zones


Availability Zones
What's an Availability Zones?
Think of an Availability Zones as a data center.


Data Centers
What's a Data Center?
A data center is just a building filled with servers.


Multiple Data Centers - One Availability Zone
An Availability Zone may be serval data centers, but because they are close together, 
they are counted as 1 Availability Zone.
They are within certain mile radius to be grouped into one Availability Zone.


What's a Regions?
A Region is a geographical area. Each Region consists of 2 (or more) Availability Zone.
e.g. US East 1


Edge Locations
Edge Locations are endpoints for AWS that are used for caching content.
Typically , this consists of CloudFront, Amazon's content delivery network (CDN).
There are many more edge locations than Regions.   Edge Location 比 Region 多很多


Exam Tips - 3 Tips for AWS Building Blocks
1. Regoin is a physical location in the world that consists of two or more Availability Zones (AZs).
2. An AZ is one or more discrete data centers - each with redundant power, networking, and connectivity - housed in separate facilities.
3. Edge locations are endpoints for AWS that are used for caching content. Typically, this consists of CloudFront, Amazon's CDN.



Chapter 2.2 - Who Owns What in the Cloud?

This lesson is about Who is responsible for what in the Cloud.

Lesson Breakdown:
Renting a Car
Renting Resources in the Cloud
The Shared Responsiblity Model
Exam Tips


Renting a Car
When you rent a car, who's responsible for what?
You:              Not to damage it; Not to speed; Pay tolls, etc.
Rental Company:   Tire pressure, Full tank of gas; Mechanics


Renting Resources in the Could
Who's responsible for what when you rent resources in the cloud?
What's you responsible for and what's Amazon responsible for
That's where the "The Shared Responsibility Model" comes in.


The Share Responsibility Model
AWS: Responsibility for Security OF the Cloud
They are respoibile for the data center, the AZs, and the Edge Location. They don't want people to know where they are, cause they don't want people to just walk in. They are responsible to the physical security of the data centers. 有许可才能进

They're also responsible for the hardware, e.g. the computer, storage, the database, and the network that runs the entire stack. For example the hypervisor, which bascally controls virtualization on top of the physical components of AWS's cloud.


Customer: Responsibility for Security IN the Cloud
You're responsible for what you do with the cloud.
For example, 
Customer Data
Platform, Applications, Identity & Access Management
Operation System, Network & Firwall COnfiguration
Client-Side Data Encryption & Data Integrity Authentication
Server-Side Encryption (File System and/or Data)
Networking Traffic Protection (Encryption, Integrity, Identity)


Exam Tips: 
就问你自己：Can you do this yourself in the AWS Management Console?
If yes, you are likely responsible. For example,
Security groups, IAM users, patching EC2 operationg system, patching databases running on EC2, etc.

If not, AWS is likely responsible. (You're not responsible for things you can't control.) For example,
Mangement of data cneters, security cameras, cabling, patching RDS operation systems, etc.

Encryption is a shared responsibility.
你可以 encrypt your client data by clicking on the button 去 告诉 AWS you want to encrypt this volume, 这就是 you're doing encryption on your side.
Then AWS has to a bunch of guidence and make sure it's encrypted.
That's encryption is a shared responsibility.




Chapter 2.3 - Compute, Storage, Databases, and Networking

Compute
You wouldn't be able to build an application without compute power - you need something to crunch the data.

Usually we think of compute as servers or virtual machines. It can also be serverless, for example things like lambda.

Compute is just the way we process our information.

Some computing services: 
EC2 (virtual machine);
Lambda (a way to do it serverlessly, so there are no virtual machines, all you worry about is your code.);
Elastic Beanstalk (It is a provisioning engine. This is a way of automating the deployment of your application within AWS. You don't need to know a lot about AWS to use Elastic Beanstalk. Essentially, you just throw your code at it and it will basically grow out the web servers, load balancers, etc, you need.)


Storage:
Once we compute the data, we need to store it.
Think you storage like a giant disk in the cloud - it's a safe place to save your information.

Storage services:
S3: Simple Storage Services
EBS: Elastic Block Store. This is basically a virtual hard disk that we attach to our virtual machine.
EFS: Elastic File System. A way to store our files centrally.
FSx
Storage Gateway


Databases:
The easiest way to think of a database is a spreadsheet.
It's a reliable way to store and retrieve information.

Databases services:
RDS: relational databases
DynamoDB -> a non-relational databases
Redshift: a database warehousing technology


Networking:
We need a way for our compute, stroage,and databases to communicate and even a place for them to live. This is where networking comes in.

Networking Services:
VPCs: VPC is basically virtual data centers in the cloud.
Direct Connect: it is a way to directly connect your headquarter or you on-prem databases to AWS cloud.
Route 53: a way of doing DNS. a way of registering domain name and pointing them at our web servers.
API Gateway: this is basically a serverless way of replacing your web servers.
AWS Global Accelerator: a way of accelerating your audiences towards your application within AWS.


Key Services to Know for the Exam:
Compute: EC2, Lambda, Elastic Beanstalk
Storage: S3, EBS, EFS, FSx, Storage Gateway
Databases: RDS, DynamoDB, Redshift
Networking: VPCs, Direct Connect, Route 53, API Gateway, AWS Global Accelerator




Chapter 2.4 - What is the Well-Architected Framework?

AWS Whitepapers
Well-Architected Framework Pillars
Exam Tips

AWS Whitepapars
AWS has hundreds of whitepapers available.
https://aws.amazon.com/whitepapers

Read "AWS Well-Architected Framework" whitepaper at the end of the course before taking the exam.
This is the most important whitepaper for the exam.

Well-Architected Framework Pillars
Six Pillars of the Well-Architected Framework
1. Operational Excellence:
Running and monitoring systems to deliver business value, and continually improving processes and procedures
2. Performance Efficiency
Using IT and computing resources efficiently
3. Security
Protecting information and systems
4. Cost Optimization
Avoiding unnucessary costs
5. Reliability
Ensuring a workload performs its intended function correctly and consistently when it's expected to
6. Sustainability
Minimizing the environmental impacts of running cloud workloads

Read this whitepaper after you finish this course and are about to take the exam.



Chapter 2.5 - AWS Fundamentals Exam Tips

The Building Blocks of AWS: Availability zones and Regions:
3 Tips for AWS Building Blocks:
1. A Region is a physical location in the world that consists of two or more Availability Zones (AZs).
2. An AZ is one or more discrete data centers - each with redundant power, networking, and connectivity - housed in separate facilities.
3. Edge Locations are endpoints for AWS that are used for caching content. Typically, this consists of CloudFront, Amazon's content delivery network (CDN).
There are always more Edge Locations than there are Regions.
Edge Locations are closer to the user.

Who Owns What is the Cloud?
Just need to ask yourself: can you do this yourself in the AWS Management Console?
1. If yes, you are likely responsible.
e.g. Security groups, IAM users, patching EC2 operating systems, patching databases running on EC2, etc.
2. If no, AWS is likely responsible.
e.g. Management of the data centers (preventing people from going into the data centers and walking around), security cameras, cabling, patching RDS operating systems, etc.
3. Encryption is a shared responsibility.

Compute, Storage, Databases, and Networking
You need to know the Key Services:
1. Compute: EC2, Lambda, Elastic Beanstalk
2. Storage: S3, EBS, EFS, FSx, Storage Gateway
3. Databases: RDS, DynamoDB, Redshift
4. Networking: VPCs, Direct Connect, Route 53, API Gateway, AWS Global Accelerator

Read the Whitepaper - Well-Architected Framework





